Pre-run executables content moved (#430)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/web-apps/automated-testing/pre-run-executables.md

> ---

Author: All I know is that Meredith talked to Dylan, who said to put it in Web Apps -> Automated Testing for now 🤷🏻‍♀️

Pre-run executables are commonly used to change browser settings and VM configurations before a test starts. This page provides a few examples these scripts, and covers setting `prerun` as a desired capability during test configuration. You can find more information on the `prerun` capability in [Test Configuration Options](https://wiki.saucelabs.com/display/DOCSDEV/Test+Configuration+Options#TestConfigurationOptions-Pre-runExecutables).

>**NOTE:** Root and Administrative Permissions on Sauce Labs Virtual Machines
sudo access is not allowed on Linux/Mac virtual machines. Administrative access is not allowed on Windows VMs.

### Writing a Configuration Script
This example script disables the warning that Safari pops up when using basic HTTP authentication to access a website.

**disable_fraud.sh**
```
#!/bin/bash
defaults write com.apple.Safari WarnAboutFraudulentWebsites false
```

>**NOTE:** Match File Types to Your Operating System
When creating your executable file, take into account the operating system you'll use for your tests. For example, Bash commands won't work on Windows machines, which instead require a `.bat` or `.com` file.

### Storing a Configuration Script

> Your script can be stored in GitHub or in [Sauce Storage](https://wiki.saucelabs.com/display/DOCS/Temporary+Storage+Methods). You can also use [Gist](https://gist.github.com/) to easily host your executable file. Make sure to use the link containing the raw file contents.

Author: Yeah, I can't find it either. Let's leave it for now, and I can follow up with Meredith. I've found a few wiki docs links that I can't map to the new site yet.

> ###Set the `prerun` Capability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set the `prerun` Capability
```

    'background': 'false'
}
```

This example accesses the same script from Sauce Storage:

```
desired_capabilities['prerun'] = {
    'executable':'sauce-storage:disable_fraud.sh',
    'background': 'false'
}
```

## Setting Up Silent Mode
One of the arguments that can be added to the `prerun` capability in your test configuration options is `--silent`, which can be abbreviated to `/S`. This argument will "silently" install the executable without any modal dialogs or other installation processes showing up in your tests. Here's an example of how you would set the prerun capability to run in silent mode:

```
"prerun": {
    "executable": "http://url.to/your/executable.exe",
    "args": [ "/S", "-a", "-q" ],
    "background": true,
    "timeout": 120
}
```

## Setting Basic Authentication in Safari
In Safari, when you try to navigate to a URL that uses basic HTTP authentication, a warning dialog pops up that will derail your automated tests unless you can resolve it. You can use a short shell script that you execute as a pre-run executable to configure Safari to not show this message.

>**NOTE:** You can only use this for Safari versions up to and including 10.x.

> This script clears the Warn when visiting a fraudulent website option in Safari's preferences, so that your automated tests that use basic authentication over HTTP will execute without triggering the warning.

Author: Yeah, no idea. I'm not familiar enough with this content to make a call.

```
#!/bin/bash
defaults write com.apple.Safari WarnAboutFraudulentWebsites false
```

[This script](https://gist.githubusercontent.com/saucyallison/3a73a4e0736e556c990d/raw/d26b0195d48b404628fc12342cb97f1fc5ff58ec/disable_fraud.sh) is hosted as a Gist on GitHub.

> ### Setting the `prerun` Capability

Reviewer: This section seems like mostly a duplicate of the previous `### Set the `prerun` Capability` under the `## Writing a Configuration Script` section? Is there any value to having this same level of info in here twice? Maybe we should bubble the topic up to a H2 level and present it on its own?

> You can host this script in your own repository, or in temporary Sauce Storage, and refer to it within the prerun capability of your tests as described in the [Test Configuration Options](https://wiki.saucelabs.com/display/DOCSDEV/Test+Configuration+Options#TestConfigurationOptions-Pre-runExecutables) topic. This Python example refers to the GitHub Gist location:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can host this script in your own repository, or in temporary Sauce Storage, and refer to it within the `prerun` capability of your tests as described in the [Test Configuration Options](/dev/test-configuration-options#pre-run-executables) topic. This Python example refers to the GitHub Gist location:
```

```
desired_capabilities['prerun'] = {
  'executable':'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/saucyallison/3a73a4e0736e556c990d/raw/d26b0195d48b404628fc12342cb97f1fc5ff58ec/disable_fraud.sh',
    'background': 'false'
}
```

## Downloading Files to a VM Prior to Testing

You can use a pre-run executable script to download files from a public location to the Sauce Labs virtual machine running your tests. This topic contains example scripts for downloading remote files on different operating systems, and details configuring the prerun capability in your tests.

<Tabs
  defaultValue="macOS"
  values={[
    {label: 'macOS', value: 'macOS'},
    {label: 'Windows', value: 'Windows'},
    {label: 'Windows XP', value: 'Windows XP'},

>     {label: 'Linux', value: 'Linux'},

Reviewer: Are these working in your local? I thought that the values had to be all lowercase and a non-breaking string?

Author: Yep, they work for me

echo Set objXMLHTTP = CreateObject("MSXML2.XMLHTTP") >> C:\dl.vbs
echo objXMLHTTP.open "GET", strFileURL, false >> C:\dl.vbs
echo objXMLHTTP.send() >> C:\dl.vbs
echo If objXMLHTTP.Status = 200 Then >> C:\dl.vbs
echo Set objADOStream = CreateObject("ADODB.Stream") >> C:\dl.vbs
echo objADOStream.Open >> C:\dl.vbs
echo objADOStream.Type = 1 'adTypeBinary >> C:\dl.vbs
echo objADOStream.Write objXMLHTTP.ResponseBody >> C:\dl.vbs
echo objADOStream.Position = 0 'Set the stream position to the start >> C:\dl.vbs
echo Set objFSO = Createobject("Scripting.FileSystemObject") >> C:\dl.vbs
echo If objFSO.Fileexists(strHDLocation) Then objFSO.DeleteFile strHDLocation >> C:\dl.vbs
echo Set objFSO = Nothing >> C:\dl.vbs
echo objADOStream.SaveToFile strHDLocation >> C:\dl.vbs
echo objADOStream.Close >> C:\dl.vbs
echo Set objADOStream = Nothing >> C:\dl.vbs
echo End if >> C:\dl.vbs
echo Set objXMLHTTP = Nothing >> C:\dl.vbs

cscript.exe C:\dl.vbs
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Linux">

### Linux
This shell script downloads **file.txt** at **mywebsite.com** to the **/tmp** directory.

```js
#!/bin/bash
wget -O /tmp/file.txt http://mywebsite.com/file.txt
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ## Set Prerun Capability

Reviewer: Ah...I think I get this now. Were the H2 sections in this doc originally different pages in the wiki, so each one includes a section on how to set the `prerun` capability for that flavor of the executable? That makes sense, but I don't think we want to do that here, all in the same page. How do you feel about pulling it out and making it its own H2?

After you've created the download script, use the prerun capability in your test script to point to its location.

If your script is in a publicly accessible location, you need to add the URL to the prerun capability.

```js
capabilities['prerun'] = "http://location.of/curl.sh"
```

## Editing the VM's Host File

> >**NOTE:** Editing the Host file of the virtual machine will not work if [Sauce Connect Proxy](https://wiki.saucelabs.com/display/DOCSDEV/Sauce+Connect+Proxy) is in use. If you are using Sauce Connect Proxy, the Host file of the machine running Sauce Connect Proxy will be referenced and you can make the desired changes there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
Editing the Host file of the virtual machine will not work if [Sauce Connect Proxy](https://wiki.saucelabs.com/display/DOCSDEV/Sauce+Connect+Proxy) is in use because the Host file of the machine running Sauce Connect Proxy is referenced, so make the desired changes there, instead.
:::
```
I didn't edit it, but I am wondering about the capitalization of "Host" here -- it does not seem to be capitalized anywhere else in this section of the doc? Maybe just something to double-check.

An example of configuring a Sauce Labs virtual machine with a pre-run executable is editing the host file in the virtual machine, so when the driver tries to access a particular domain, like google.com, it will be redirected to a new IP address, for example 162.222.75.243 ([saucelabs.com](http://saucelabs.com/)). As with other `prerun` configurations, the basic steps are:

1. Write a script with the URL redirect to the new IP address.
1. Upload the script to a publicly accessible location, like GitHub or Sauce Storage

> 1. Set the [`prerun` capability](https://wiki.saucelabs.com/display/DOCSDEV/Test+Configuration+Options#TestConfigurationOptions-Pre-runExecutables) in your test script to load the script as host file in the Sauce Labs virtual machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the [`prerun` capability](/dev/test-configuration-options#pre-run-executables) in your test script to load the script as host file in the Sauce Labs virtual machine.
```

### Host File Script
Here are examples of the host file script, `EditDNS`, in both OS X/Linux and Windows versions.

> OS X/Linux Host File Script
> #!/bin/bash
> echo "162.222.75.243 www.google.com" >> /etc/hosts
> Windows Host File
> @echo off
> echo 162.222.75.243 www.google.com > %temp%\temphosts.txt
> type C:\WINDOWS\system32\drivers\etc\hosts >> %temp%\temphosts.txt
> copy /Y %temp%\temphosts.txt C:\WINDOWS\system32\drivers\etc\hosts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash OS X/Linux Host File Script
#!/bin/bash
echo "162.222.75.243 www.google.com" >> /etc/hosts
Windows Host File
@echo off
echo 162.222.75.243 www.google.com > %temp%\temphosts.txt
type C:\WINDOWS\system32\drivers\etc\hosts >> %temp%\temphosts.txt
copy /Y %temp%\temphosts.txt C:\WINDOWS\system32\drivers\etc\hosts
```
```

> ## Setting the `prerun` Capability in Your Test Script

Reviewer: Now I am actually super confused about this, since this section is here again, but as a H2 instead of an H3 inside the bigger Editing the VM's host file, although it actually does seem to go with that content, so maybe it is just a typo?

Anyway...I am still sticking with my suggestion that we only have one version of this section. Plus, this example, unlike the previous code sample, show waaaaaay more of the file than just the `prerun` setting, which it overkill, imo.

Having created and uploaded your host file script, you now need to refer to it using the prerun capability in your script, as shown in this Python example.

```
#!/usr/bin/python
# -*- coding: UTF-8 -*-

from selenium import webdriver

desired_capabilities = webdriver.DesiredCapabilities.CHROME
desired_capabilities['version'] = 'latest'
desired_capabilities['platform'] = 'macOS 10.14'
desired_capabilities['name'] = 'Editing the DNS'
desired_capabilities['prerun'] = {'executable':'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/albedithdiaz/sauceSupport/master/preRunScripts/EditHostFile.sh', 'background': False }

remote_url = 'http://SAUCE_USERNAME:SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY@ondemand.saucelabs.com/wd/hub'

driver = webdriver.Remote(command_executor = remote_url, desired_capabilities = desired_capabilities)
driver.implicitly_wait(30)

driver.get('http://www.saucedemo.com')
title = driver.title
assert "Swag Labs" in title

driver.quit()
```

## Creating JSON Objects for Multiple Arguments

If your test script is written in Java, you will need to create a JSON object if you want to include multiple arguments, such as `--silent, -a` with the `prerun` capability.

> >**NOTE:** The JSONObject Class/Library
> Make sure your test script imports the JSONObject class/library so you can create the JSON object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note The JSONObject Class/Library
Make sure your test script imports the `JSONObject` class/library so you can create the JSON object.
:::
```

```
JSONObject obj = new JSONObject();
obj.put("executable","http://url.to/your/executable.exe");
LinkedList<String> list = new LinkedList<String>();
list.add("/S");
list.add("-a");
list.add("-q");
obj.put("args",list);
obj.put("background","true");
obj.put("timeout", "240");
System.out.print(obj);
```

> If your test script is written in C#, you will need to create a Dictionary object with the prerun capability as JSON Objects do not work well with C# projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your test script is written in C#, you will need to create a Dictionary object with the `prerun` capability as JSON Objects do not work well with C# projects.
```

> >**NOTE:** The C# Dictionary Object
> When creating the Dictionary object, make sure to make it the TKey is of value "string" and the TValue is of value "object"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note The C# Dictionary Object
When creating the Dictionary object, make sure the TKey is of value "string" and the TValue is of value "object"
:::
```

```
var obj = new Dictionary<string, object>();
obj.Add("executable", "http://url.to/your/executable");
obj.Add("background", true);
obj.Add("timeout", 120);
```

> When you set the desired capabilities of your test, you will refer to the object you created as the path to the executable, as in this example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set the desired capabilities of your test, refer to the object you created as the path to the executable, as in this example:
```

```
DesiredCapabilities capabilities = new DesiredCapabilities();
capabilities.setCapability("prerun", obj);
```

## Running an AutoIt Script

> When using Sauce Connect to run local tests on a Windows machine, you may encounter an Integrated Windows Authentication (IWA) dialog, also known as NTLM or Domain authentication. This is because the machine that Sauce Connect is running on is used to look up the host where the site or application under test is located. If the host has IWA enabled, the authentication request will be passed back through Sauce Connect to the Sauce Labs browser. Because there is no registry key available on our Windows virtual machines to disable this authentication, the solution is to create an AutoIT script to respond to the dialog,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using Sauce Connect to run local tests on a Windows machine, you may encounter an Integrated Windows Authentication (IWA) dialog, also known as NTLM or Domain authentication. This is because the machine that Sauce Connect is running on is used to look up the host where the site or application under test is located. If the host has IWA enabled, the authentication request will be passed back through Sauce Connect to the Sauce Labs browser. Because there is no registry key available on our Windows virtual machines to disable this authentication, the solution is to create an AutoIT script to respond to the dialog.
```

You can use the AutoIT Script editor to write and save your script.

The script for handling the IWA dialog should look like this:

```js
WinWaitActive(“Windows Security”)
Send(“Username”)
Send(“{TAB}”)
Send(“mysupersecretpassword”)
Send(“{ENTER}”)
```
For **Username** and **mysupersecretpassword**, enter the authentication credentials required by the Windows host.

When you save the script, it will be an **.au3** file, and you will need to compile it as an **.exe** file. Once compiled, you can use it as a pre-run executable with this desired capability call:

```js
"prerun": { "executable": "http://url.to/your/executable.exe",
            "args": [ "--silent", "-a", "-q" ], "background": true }
```

> If using Sauce Storage for your pre-run executable send the following desired capability:
> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using Sauce Storage for your pre-run executable send the following desired capability:

```js
```

A pre-run executable is simply a script that you download to the Sauce Labs virtual machine and run prior to a test to change settings for Safari, Internet Explorer, or any other browser, or to configure the virtual machine that your tests will run on.

## Setting Up Pre-Run Executables
You can configure your Sauce testing jobs to use  pre-run executables with the `prerun` capability as described in [Test Configuration Options](/dev/test-configuration-options#pre-run-executables).

Pre-run executables are commonly used to change browser settings and VM configurations before a test starts. This page provides a few examples of these scripts, and covers setting `prerun` as a desired capability during [test configuration](/dev/test-configuration-options#pre-run-executables).

:::note Root and Administrative Permissions on Sauce Labs Virtual Machines
`sudo` access is not allowed on Linux/Mac virtual machines. Administrative access is not allowed on Windows VMs.
:::

### Writing a Configuration Script
This example script disables the warning that Safari pops up when using basic HTTP authentication to access a website.

```bash title="disable_fraud.sh"
#!/bin/bash

> defaults write com.apple.Safari WarnAboutFraudulentWebsites false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
defaults write com.apple.Safari WarnAboutFraudulentWebsites false
```
```
